README.md, before:

---
  tags: conditional expressions, control flow, case statements, strings, methods, arrays, timtowtdi
  languages: ruby
  resources: 1
---

# More Vowels

### Skills: Control Flow, Creativity

## Instructions

Let's go back to the exercise where we determined what is and is not a vowel. With Ruby, there's always more than one way to do something and get the same result. ([TIMTOWTDI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/There's_more_than_one_way_to_do_it), kids.)

For the purposes of this exercise, we are assuming the vowels are `a, e, i, o, and u`. Sorry, 'y'.

1. Write a method that returns whether a given letter is a vowel, using `if` and `elsif`.

2. Write a method that returns whether a given letter is a vowel, using a case statement.

3. Write a method that returns whether a given letter is a vowel without using `if` or `case` while all on a single line.

4. Write a method that returns whether a given letter is a vowel without checking equality, or the use of `if`. Hint: use an array of vowels.

5. Write a method that returns whether a given letter is a vower using the ternary operator.

6. Write a method that will evaluate a string and return the first vowel found in the string, if any.

7. Write a method that will evaluate a string and return the ordinal position (index) of the string where the first vowel is found, if any.

*Hint: remember that every line of Ruby code has a return value, and that a method will return the result of the last operation.*

Commit message:

cleaned up readme, made array method bonus and test pending, removed duplicative methods/tests

README.md, after:

# More Vowels

## Objectives
1. Practice writing methods and returning values
2. Practice flow control and the use of if/else statements
3. Practice flow control and the use of case statements
4. Practice use comparative operators


## Instructions

Let's go back to the exercise where we determined what is and is not a vowel. With Ruby, there's always more than one way to do something and get the same result. ([TIMTOWTDI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/There's_more_than_one_way_to_do_it), kids.)

For the purposes of this exercise, we are assuming the vowels are `a, e, i, o, and u`. Sorry, 'y'.

1. Write a method that returns whether a given letter is a vowel, using `if` and `elsif`.

2. Write a method that returns whether a given letter is a vowel, using a case statement.

3. Write a method that returns whether a given letter is a vowel without using `if` or `case` while all on a single line. Use the ternary operator. 

4. Write a method that will evaluate a string and return the first vowel found in the string, if any.

5. Write a method that will evaluate a string and return the ordinal position (index) of the string where the first vowel is found, if any.

**Bonus:**

6. Write a method that returns whether a given letter is a vowel without checking equality, or the use of `if`. Hint: use an array of vowels.

*Hint: remember that every line of Ruby code has a return value, and that a method will return the result of the last operation.*
